# FOSSphones

### your number one source for linux phone news

=> gemini://fossphones.com/community.gmi  Community
=> gemini://fossphones.com/news.gmi       News
=> gemini://fossphones.com/os.gmi         Operating Systems
=> gemini://fossphones.com/software.gmi   Software
=> gemini://fossphones.com/devices.gmi    Devices
=> gemini://fossphones.com/contact.gmi    Contact Us
=> gemini://fossphones.com/about.gmi      About Us

## Welcome to FOSSphones!

> Linux Phone News Update - October 4, 2021 - Available Now in the News link.

Thank you for visiting FOSSphones. We're glad you stopped by!

This is our newest home on Gemini. It's cool to now be able to bring the news about Linux phones to the Gemini protocol. 

Thank you for visiting FOSSphones. We're glad you stopped by!

As promised, our FOSSphones Community is on its way to being up and running.

We are using some of my favorite decentralized technologies in the building of this part of FOSSphones, including xmpp, matrix, and good old-fashioned IRC.

I will post back here as soon as the setup is done. You are free to come join us at the FOSSphones Element Space if you would like to chat with fellow Linux Phone users, developers, and enthusiasts.

## Find your way around!

Check out the Community tab to find out ways you can talk GNU/Linux phones with other people just like you!

Check out the News tab for the latest in the world of GNU/Linux mobile software and hardware projects.

Check out the Operating Systems tab to learn more about operating systems for mobile Linux devices.

Check out the Software tab for information on free and open-source software projects.

Check out the Devices tab to learn about mobile hardware specialized to run FOSS software.

Check out the Contact tab to find out how you can get in touch with us.

Check out the About Us tab to learn more about fossphones and what we're all about.

= = = = = = = = = =

=> gemini://fossphones.com/index.gmi    FOSSphones

Like what we're doing? Send us some crypto if you want to contribute to keeping this site up and running!

* BTC: 
1K76vKnBp7ptd2viX5gp6gWE5knSrSjHjL

* ETH:
0xc51F36C9f939b721890c7df922D197cE068E4D4e

* XMR:
4ANpq4fxmb6N9ekXNvuJ4rLCG1A3bxyA2386X9xV3JsjZWJCbnKrVACdPD8rnpENtdAbMkmmMDrBNcrQZzVADeMMMTTWdXm

> fossphones is proudly built and maintained by rav3ndust
