# FOSSphones

### your number one source for linux phone news

=> gemini://fossphones.com/community.gmi  Community
=> gemini://fossphones.com/news.gmi       News
=> gemini://fossphones.com/os.gmi         Operating Systems
=> gemini://fossphones.com/software.gmi   Software
=> gemini://fossphones.com/devices.gmi    Devices
=> gemini://fossphones.com/contact.gmi    Contact Us
=> gemini://fossphones.com/about.gmi      About Us

## Mobian

If you are a fan of using Debian on your desktop machine, laptop, or even your server, then you’re going to feel right at home with Mobian. Mobian is a "Mobile Debian" and is essentially Debian scaled down to a Phosh overlay.

Currently, Mobian is based on Debian Bullseye. Built by developer a-wai and a small team of contributors, it is fast becoming one of the most usable Linux mobile distributions for the PinePhone.

The Mobian team doesn't plan to stop with the PinePhone either - they also eventually have plans to port the distro to Purism's Librem 5.

## Download Mobian For Your PinePhone

Ready to try everything you love about pure Debian on your PinePhone? Scoop up the latest image from the link below, extract it, flash it to an SD card, and enjoy!

=> https://images.mobian-project.org/pinephone/     Download Mobian for PinePhone

# = = = = = = = = = =

=> gemini://fossphones.com/index.gmi    FOSSphones

Like what we're doing? Send us some crypto if you want to contribute to keeping this site up and running!

* BTC: 
1K76vKnBp7ptd2viX5gp6gWE5knSrSjHjL

* ETH:
0xc51F36C9f939b721890c7df922D197cE068E4D4e

* XMR:
4ANpq4fxmb6N9ekXNvuJ4rLCG1A3bxyA2386X9xV3JsjZWJCbnKrVACdPD8rnpENtdAbMkmmMDrBNcrQZzVADeMMMTTWdXm

> fossphones is proudly built and maintained by rav3ndust